So you can see there's a few little
details that we need to iron out with
the CSS here.
In particular, it'd be nice to
add some dark mode themes here.
But on the whole, our game is looking
pretty polished, and we can take this and
we can deploy it to the Internet,
and people can play it.
So we've used a lot of
different Svelte concepts here.
We've used actions,
we've used components, we've used slots,
we've used transitions and animations,
we've used the vents to manage state.
We're using references to components and
calling functions inside those components.
So we're using a pretty broad array of
the things that we learned earlier in
the session.
There is of course more that was covered
in the tutorial that we didn't use in
this app.
But that's something that you'll have
the opportunity to use as you build
Svelte apps.
>> Can you do repeat infinite
animations or transitions with Svelte?
>> No, a transition is
transitioning from an element is
not in the DOM to
an element is in the DOM.
Once it's there, that's it.
You can, of course,
add CSS animations to your elements.
So if you want to have something
that repeats infinitely,
then you can just do that
as a regular CSS animation.
You don't need to use Svelte
transitions for that.
But no,
a transition is off to an on state.
>> Can you explain a little bit
more how dispatch is working, and
how the event handlers work?
>> Yeah, so
when you call createEventDispatcher
when a component first initializes,
we're creating a function that is bound
to a specific component instance.
And so when you call that function, Svelte
knows that it's the component within
which you call createEventDispatcher
that is dispatching that event.
And so anything that has
a reference to that component,
because you have a component that
has that other component as a child,
you can then add that event handler.
And Svelte understands
the hierarchy of the components.
And so it knows that the event listener
on the outer component needs to
respond to anything that gets called
with dispatch on the inner component.
So it's just keeping a central registry
essentially of all of the components and
their dispatchers so
that everything can get linked
up when you later call dispatch.
>> Is there a way to lint or warn that a
reactive value declaration is missing for
a derived value of a component prop,
like the dollar sign colon?
>> No, I'm not totally sure I understand
what situation that would come up in.
If a Reactive declaration references
a value that is not present,
it will just not work, that will be
a type error or a reference error,
sorry, and
you'll find out about that immediately.
I'm not sure what are the situation
that would come up in.
>> They edit a little code snippet
where they declared a variable and
set it equal to the string, hello, and
appended on a variable called my prop.
But my props should have had
the dollar sign colon in front of it.
>> Right, so Svelte doesn't know what
your intent is when you write that code.
Maybe you do intend for
it to be reactive, and
maybe it's something that you want to be
fixed when the component is initialized,
which is completely legitimate.
And so it's a little hard for the compiler
to be like, you got this wrong,
cuz it doesn't know.
The compiler is gonna assume that you
know the code that you're writing.
So that's just something like
a habit that you get into,
if you write a lot of components,
then you'll start to understand which
things need to be made reactive and
which things can be left initialized
when the component first mounts.
This concludes the first session.
In the next session,
we're gonna be talking about SvelteKit.
We're gonna be learning all
of the things that you can
do with SvelteKit as a full
stack application framework.
I hope that this has been
a useful learning experience.
I hope that if you're new to Svelte,
this has given you a sense of
what's possible to do with Svelte.
If you've been using Svelte for a while,
I hope that you learned something new.
And if nothing else,
I hope that you all had fun.
>> [APPLAUSE]